The Creative Lab is a makerspace, created and managed by the Belvedere Tiburon Library. We offer space, tools, equipment, and materials- free of cost—and volunteers to help you use them.  In exchange, we ask that you read carefully and observe our policies and guidelines.
Becoming a Maker at lab
Makers must be valid cardholders to use restricted equipment such as hand, power, or heat tools and 3D printers.
A library card is not required to use equipment and materials that are not restricted:  craft supplies, toys, littleBits, tech kits, and other designated materials.
Prior to using restricted equipment:
Makers must have completed a Tool Safety Training as certified by volunteer staff.  An orange sticker will be applied to library cards of safety-certified Makers.
Adult patrons (or their legal guardians, if applicable) must present a valid photo ID and complete and sign the Makerspace Release of Claims, Indemnity and Hold Harmless Agreement.
Minor patrons must present ID and have a parent, guardian or other person with appropriate legal authority sign the same Agreement.
A minor without valid photo ID may verify identity with a library card and parent/ guardian’s valid photo ID.
We recommend that children be eight or older to take full advantage of labs offerings.  Makers under twelve must be accompanied by a parent or guardian at all times.
Parents/guardians are welcome to tour lab and evaluate its use by a minor child.  Volunteer staff will be happy to answer questions.
Patrons with disabilities who need special arrangements or accommodations are requested to notify lab administration at 415.789.2665 as far in advance as possible before their expected time of use.
Rights and Release from Liability
The lab does not accept responsibility if a project is destroyed, does not print correctly, or does not function as expected.
The lab reserves the right to halt, delete, or disallow the creation of items.
The Maker agrees that lab is not responsible for any manufacturing defects or the quality of workmanship of any tools, materials or equipment supplied by lab or for the quality or condition of a user’s project.
The lab is not responsible for any damage to, or loss or theft of, a Maker’s property.
Lab reserves the right to place age limits for participation in classes depending on the content of the class.
Guidelines for Use
Covered drinks are welcome in lab.  Food is not permitted.
Tools and equipment are available to Makers on a first come, first served basis.
lab volunteer staff will assist in explaining operation of tools and equipment as time allows, and will make available upon request materials such as manuals. Be advised that not all staff will be knowledgeable about all equipment available at lab.
The 3D printer and other designated equipment will be operated by lab volunteer staff only.
Makers must clean their workspaces and return tools in clean condition to their original location before leaving the premises.
Storage space may be made available for Makers with unfinished projects at the discretion of lab volunteer staff.  lab does not accept responsibility for projects left at lab.
Library’s Code of Conduct applies to lab.

Safety
When using a tool that does not require certification, a Maker is responsible for handling it in a safe and proper manner.
lab provides Makers with access to safety supplies as appropriate.
Appropriate close-toed shoes and clothing must be worn depending on the activity.
If a Maker sees that any tool or piece of equipment is unsafe or in a state of disrepair, s/he must immediately stop using it and notify lab volunteer staff.
Makers must report any accident, incident, or unsafe behavior they observe to a volunteer staff member.
Regarding Cost
Use of lab is generally free. Use of some equipment and materials, however, may be subject to a fee.
Makers may be asked to pay for damages they incur to lab/ equipment or property.
Violation of lab/ policies may result in suspension or termination of privileges.
